salvia officinalis or common sage is
named the mediterranean but like most
useful plants it has been spread across
the earth with its binomial name
referring to its historically renowned
medicinal use common sage has many
different cultivars like most mints and
flowers late spring or summer it is used
in a myriad of culinary recipes
medicinal applications and religious
rituals here you can see the five
steeples separate from the labia flower
with the topmost specimen showing the
steeples bent inward after the flower
has been fertilized note that the
flowers are quite small and require very
small pollinators to reach the nectar
bypassing the tube like style and
stamens
common sage has fine hairs called cilia
with an elongated linear leaf structure
of which there are many small veins
visible on the underside of the leaf the
edges are 10 tick youlet the small tooth
like bumps
the sage plant in my garden can offer a
good representation of what a sage plant
out in the wild might look like from the
bottoms or tops the leaves to their
coloration and the edges for a better
visual the late landing pad of a sage
flower next to some dried sequel's on
the neighboring stem some of the more
noteworthy natural compounds and common
sage include alpha thujone eucalyptol
corneal niacin and oleic acid
speaking of which eucalyptol as I've
known attractant to small insects called
orchid bees which are tiny enough to
acquire the nectar at the base of the
sage flower eucalyptol is partly
responsible for the aroma of many herbs
including salvia officinalis and is a
major constituent as a central oil
I will be developing more comprehensive
videos examining at the very least six
mints bball monarda genus lemon balm
melissa officinalis peppermint mentha
piperita which is a hybrid offspring of
spearmint
mentha spicata along with rose marinus
officinalis and of course the mint
you've already examined today salvia
officinalis common sage I appreciate
your interest in these fine plants and I
hope that you will find this in other
series like it educational and
interesting